Okay. So based from our conversation earlier, you are still experiencing these anxieties about your partner’s loyalty to you. Tell me if I got it wrong, but from how I understand it, you are anxious that your partner might be cheating on you. You have these anxieties because you feel that your partner has changed the way he treats you. You told me that he’s not that sweet anymore, he is busy most of the time, he is not texting you all the time or calling you every time, and he cheated on you once already. Am I correct?
ince we don’t have much time to discuss more about this problem, I will give you homework. Well, don’t worry, this is part of the program and this is not graded.
I want you to write down in a piece of paper what you like about your partner. I mean, everyday, write an act or what your partner did that day to make you happy. And if you are experiencing those anxieties again, write the reason or reasons why you experienced that and then read the other paper I told you to write. For every night, before you go to sleep, read the “anxiety” paper first and then the “sweetness” paper. As the day goes by, always start reading from the first day you began to write. You think you can do that?
But wait, I’m not yet done. You told me awhile ago the reasons why you feel anxious, right? So I want you to write the possible reasons why you think your partner does that specific action. But I don’t want you to write that you think he is with another girl. Write a GOOD reason on why he does that. For example, he is busy. What might be the GOOD reason why he is busy? Maybe he is doing some paper works? Or maybe he is taking care of his sister? Those kinds of reasons, don’t write something about his infidelity. Do you understand that?
You’re welcome. I hope to see you next week.
So you are telling me, that no one wants to be your friend because you are a loser?
I see. Can you tell me what a loser is?
So you are saying that you like to play computer games, you like math, you like to read books, you love to listen to classical music, you like to watch cartoons, and you are always at the top of the class, and you are a loser? Am I right?
Don't you think that being at the top of the class, loving to read books, and being good at computers and math, are gifts? I mean, it's a talent. Not many people have those kinds of characteristics.
Yes it does. I think it's not a thing losers have. Do you really think that those talents are not gifts? I mean, those talents only bring worse to your life?
Can you think of another reason? Because you know, Jenny, being at the top of the class is a good thing. You mentioned that you don't have a hard time studying for your exams, and you don't study that often. But you are still at the top. Don't you think that it is an achievement?
Do they talk to you sometimes?
Then why do you think they don't like you, if they do talk to you?
Don't you think that they want to be your friend, but because you are always reading books, like you mentioned earlier, they just don't want to disturb you?
You see Jenny, you are not a loser. You are a talented young woman, who has a variety of interests, well, special interests that few people like too. You are smart, and you are special.
Yes. As I understand your story, I think they wanted you to be their friend, but you are too busy to notice them.
So, what will you do tomorrow when you go to class?
Really? You will do that?
Well, don’t mention it. See you next week. I hope things will work out just fine for you.
I'm always nervous.I seem to get nervous that th€ tape is sometling that I've got control
of, you know, like its going to be my tape and I think I'm nervous about speaking into
it because usually if it is someone else's then I'm less conscious of it or something you
know.
No its not mine. I mean I'm not going to ... its going to be theirs. So hopefully I'm not
going to be as nervous as I would have had it been (brief laugh). We could put it where
we couldn't see it.
Yeah, O.K. You don't mind.
You mean like they are gone. There are holes in there?
oh, oh.
They just don't tum on when you push the butlon
when you push the button.
Well the thing was hiding. . . the carbeing hidden behind the tree symbolized him hiding
it somewhere
Yeah, that bothers you that he doesn't want. . . you feel he doesn't . . . .
I kinda missed that, you don't op€rate like that . . . you don't do things . . . You don't
like to feel is good to do things you really don't want to do just because they kind of
think you should. Is that . . . .
I just kind of. . . .
Missed the poinl Yeah, OK
Ah-ha.
(short laugh).
Um-um.
Um-um.
Ah ha.
Panicularly in that type ofthing. About that. About future relationships with a man and
woman.
I think panicularly it it gets sticky here. Something strange happens. I mean,l don't mean
it's not a good thing to do but sometimes guys start to get real nervous when that happens.
(slight laugh) I...
 It happens particularly in those things, yeah . . . .You are probably still going to be
thinking about it anyway, The future, whether you say something about it or not?
Certain? What cenain?
Oh.
OK.
Yeah.
Right.
Doesn't seem like . . . It's kinda like his feelings for his mother are toward her . . . What
do you think? Or did you begin to feel . . . That's how it stsuck me. That was more this
was more sonrething about her than about than about you.
He won't . . . because of the mother thing again you mean . . . Yeah.
But I was going to say, if the guy didn't feel he could sleep at your house because his
mother said that l l don't know what.. that does sound somewhat...ah... along that
line and I...I...
I don't know how common that is among people. But . . .
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mm-mm.
Your what?
Ah.
I mean...
Ah, OK.
(laughs) That's what you say to your nieces (laughs).
Uh huh.
The thing was tre facl that you want€d to spend time with him and there was no time to
do both him and the school work made you made you wonder about tho future in that
regard....
You don't . . .
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's the kind of thing where you are involved in it makes it makes it more than wherher
you accept him in the situation as long as your right . . . then something . . . also.
I guess. . . what. . . when you said you confused your acceptance of him with your. . ,
with the acceptance of the situation which involved you.
I never thought about that before myself and suddenly it, you know, you accept the person
. . . You know if you are involved with them then if they do somehing that involves you
I mean, then you can still accept them but. . .I don't know. It just struck me I can't. . .
...get off of it.It's kind of like, I mean,you can't you can't...anything they do can't
be OK if its effecting your life in some . . .
You know . . . funny way or something.
I’ve been talking to Diana and Ann and its the 27th day of August. And we were just reviewing Diana’s experience of her mum and dad’s anti-anorexic way of being and talking. I’ll just catch the tape up with us. You were saying that, in general, what was most important to you was that they had a way of disagreeing with you – speaking something other than the way of Anorexia – in a way that also allowed them to hear you and acknowledge that you were speaking. And for you that was important. And what were we talking about then? Oh, at first when your mum and dad started intruding this way of talking and thinking, it, in fact, offended you.
Can you tell us what was the nature of that offence?
Did you feel that they were abandoning you?
At that time, did Anorexia have a way of telling you that your mum and dad were doing?
What did Anorexia tell you your mum and dad were doing by standing up for Anti-Anorexia?
I am just guessing here. Did it then tell you that the only way to ensure their love was to get worse?
I remember you mentioning that a few times in the early days. You even asked me if we would be interested in you if you weren’t’ a captive of Anorexia? I think we all just went – ‘Whew! We’d really like to talk to you! – We assure you we won’t abandon you.’ Do you remember that conversation? I am thinking back to that and I recall being shocked by that!
Do you have many memories of that time or is it just like a nightmare?
Do you have a hard time keeping the days apart? When do you feel you started getting your mind back? For me, I couldn’t believe meeting you in the hospital . . .there was YOU.
A person I guess who was always there. In fact you were the very person your mum and dad had told me so much about.
Yah, but at least you knew you needed it!
What would you put your self-discovery down to? Would you consider that you rediscovered yourself or found yourself? You found your direction again or got a new direction for your life?
Really. Do you figure you have caught up to all the time it took away from you?
Isn’t it exciting to think about that?
Is that a matter for grief that you lost so much?
It is also a matter for some zealousness, in a sense, that you’ve been on the bench for a quite a long time and that you want to get back into the game and make use of your time?
Has this experience led you to believe that your life is important? You have a life’s work or …? That there is something important about you?
Is it a mixture of apprehension and excitement that you look to your future with?
Yes…do you feel you know something that other people may not know and you do not want this to happen to them?
If you kind of met yourself – I don’t know how many years ago it was ….3 years when Anorexia started to …
 ….inch its way into your life, and then there were some things that happened that obviously opened the door of it ….some calamities….what would you tell the person who you were then? What warnings would you give? What would you say or do?
How significant was it for you when Jenny (another League member) just went out and gave you a hug. You met her twice didn’t you? Do you remember her?
She has emigrated to Australia, I suppose, trying to catch up on her life.
When do you see yourself re-entering a school life?
Congratulations! That;’s a credit to you because I’m telling you that Anorexia and its starvation isn’t any good for your mind. It’s not a recommended thing to do for thinking
I was amazed that at that time and under those circumstances, you were able to ..
When did you get your delightful sense of humour back?
I don’t remember you enjoying anything then …even smiling when I first met you.
Did she bring it out in you?
Do you feel that anorexia has much of a hold over you now?
Really….that is an amazing sign!
That’s a real sign of victory in a sense that you can take a loss and it doesn’t wreck your day. And IT doesn’t talk you into ‘all is lost’. Or you are back to square one or whatever.
Does IT try to tell you that …all these accomplishments …all this anti-Anorexia is for nothing because you are not perfect. That you don’t do it perfectly or something?
Do you consider that there were any ‘silver linings’ to this ‘dark cloud;’? Is there anything good that is coming out of this for you in terms of your life and your relationships with your mum and your dad, sisters and brothers?
What about Emma (aged ?)
Do you think it will be awhile before she feels safe with Diana?
Do you recall that when Anorexia was getting you, it was also getting her through you?
Well, that quite often happens! Do you remember your neighbour who Anorexia killed. And how it got her to starve her children?
Do you think that was a good idea or a bad idea?
You are really funny!Do you know the best way to tell people are Anti-Anorexia? They can laugh. I have met people who haven’t laughed for 7 or 8 years. And when they start, it actually hurts! They haven’t used those muscles.
 I often ask – ‘does it hurt your face?’ And they go ”Yah…is that why it hurts?”‘ So I then ask them – ‘Can your recall the last time you laughed?’ And they will often say – ‘It was about 7 years ago!’ And they might even cry thinking about the fact that they hadn’t even realized that they hadn’t laughed for so long. To be derived of laughter and joy is one of the cruelest tortures…
That can it be inflicted on anybody. I know this is a hard question and I don’t expect you to have simple answers. What would you put your comeback down to? I know there were lots of things. Any ideas that you think were more important than others?
Did you seek another life apart from Anorexia?
Would you consider that a turning point for you in a sense?
What was significant about that in terms of your Anti-Anorexia? How did that figure in it? I’m just trying to work it out.
Did that give you something to fight against?
Was that like an intrusion?
Did this get you to think to yourself – ‘This is what Anorexia is leading me into?’ How did that lead to your rejection of Anorexia? What meaning did it have for you in terms of Anti-Anorexia?
Was that an awareness that once again your life wasn’t your own?
Whey didn’t you blame it on the hospital and not on Anorexia? Why didn’t you say to yourself – ‘These bastards are wrecking the promises Anorexia has promised me? I can’t wait to get out of here so I can get back to anorexia?’ Why didn’t it go that way because it does with many people?
How did it change?
Anorexia probably told you that through it you would be ‘super-normal’ … you’d be better than the best. Somehow or other you no longer believed in it because you now wanted to go back to a life it told you, I guess, was a bad life…an inadequate life…a not good enough life? I know it’s hard but it happened and it is so visible. I’ve got a theory or a guess. Who am I to know? Did it matter to you that your mum and dad got their lives going again?
Why was that important that your mum and dad got out of despair and got into – what should we say – recovery? What would you say Ann?
Diana, did you experience me in the beginning as a person who believed in your mum and dad?
Was that agreeable or disagreeable to you? And what did Anorexia think of me?
From my point of view when we recently meet in the hospital, somehow or other you knew I wasn’t against you. How did that happen? I would like to understand that. This had never happened to me before for people to think I wasn’t on their side. Perhaps we never really met even though we were in the same room. Anorexia wouldn’t let you listen to me!
Do you remember how your mum was treated at the hospital? What was your experience of that?
Can I ask – did anorexia tell you it was all your fault?
How did you see the practices at the other hospital as so helpful because you got out of there in record time? I can put it down to your mum and dad because they were so stalwart and staunch….
Do you have any concerns about going back there?
Is that a worry for you?
Was there anything – even small things – you got from Lorraine or the League?
Who has most enjoyed the return of your good humour?
I always like to ask these sort of questions. Ann, what was it like when you first realized her sense of humour and her joy were back?
Do you remember when it was?
What did you come up with?
The spell of Anorexia is pretty formidable …very compelling and it took you to the edge of life and death. And if I am any judge, you have sort of cracked it. I am not saying IT is not there. And I am not saying IT can’t speak to you. But I am pretty sure IT is going to have a hard time talking you out of what you know, what you believe and what is there about you as a person. And can you imagine what it is like for me when I met you but I knew that you were YOU and I knew then I would be meeting you like I am meeting you today. And that you will have all this ability and capacity. It’s like putting a bean seed in from last year and you have this vision how much fruit one plant will bear….even more than you can eat yourself. There will be enough to give a lot away to your friends. So bountiful! You know it will happen and you are just waiting for it to happen. To be quite honest, I wouldn’t have expected you to be where you obviously are now so fast. The only thing I have to go on is that it has to do with your mum and your dad and it has to do with you.
What’s the song? Can I get the lyrics?
Is that what your mum and dad were able to do?
Is that a real treasure for you Ann?
I never had any doubt in you!
Gee I hope you keep that somewhere.
No restrictions on that! What were the words again?
What an anti-anorexic song that is!
Could you make a copy for me some time? I’d like to have it. Do you remember what Brett said about how if Anorexia had cracked the ‘rock’ of his mother and father, ‘I would have been gone”. Anorexia never could crack my relationship with my parents. Why I ask is that the League has become very concerned how anorexia dis-members’ people from your life. How would you consider that IT does that? You almost lost your Dad there for awhile, didn’t you?
What’s interesting now is that you seem to want to reconnect with the people in your life?
Anorexia won’t like that because for it to operate most successfully, it has to isolate you. Does that make sense to you?
If you were to phone someone, who would be the first person on your list to phone? Just in terms of your intentions.
Not intimate enough?
What about an anti-Anorexia party?
What would be really great – I hope I’m not saying too much but I can’t help myself here….
What about a party in which you told them what had happened because they may have had some thoughts that you didn’t like them or want their company. They might think that you thought you were better than them, when in fact you probably didn’t think you were good enough for them, You could have a reunion. Do you know what a reunion is?
Others have told me that when they reunite, people have told them that they couldn’t be friends with them because they were not there.
I know that you experienced it that way but there is one thing that really happens is that people get scared and they feel so helpless and they don’t know what to do because if you left them to their own devices, they may have wanted to punish you. They get mad at you. Did you find that some adults got mad with you?
What a lot of people think is that you are just being a ‘little bitch!’ That you are just doing it for attention.
I don’t think they know what you are up against really. For example that’s what we talked about in the beginning. I remember your Dad saying that he really hadn’t had a clue what you were up against. Did you feel that when your mum and dad were so overwhelmed by all the calamities that you couldn’t talk to them?
My guess is – it’s just a guess so tell me if I’m wrong – that you were really upset for your mum.
Did you fear for your mother’s life?
Well, what do you think of your mother now, especially the way she has developed as a person really through all this. I don’t think many people could have done what you did. When I say what you did, I am referring to standing up for your own life when you thought the hospital was asking you to sacrifice yourself.
Did you know your mother did that?
That you should have done that in a situation in which you were so vulnerable at that time was a titanic thing to do.
Could you have believed your mother would do that. . . that she actually advocated for her own life and said – ‘I am not going to die for you?’ She said something to the effect that ‘if you are asking me to sacrifice myself for my daughter, I am not going to do it’.
It’s getting late. I am sure there is so much more we could talk about but we have to stop there. Thanks so much for your assistance.
Good morning.
I'm Dr.Rogers, you must be Gloria.
Won't you have a chair? Now then, we have half an hour together, and I really don't know what we will be able to make of it but uh I hope we can make something of it.I'd be glad to know whatever concerns you.
I hear the tremor in your voice so I know you are...
And it's this concern about her and the fact that you really aren't - that this open relationship that has existed between you, now you feel it's kind of vanished?  
I sure wish I could give you the answer as to what you should tell her. (Smiles.)
Because what you really want is an answer.
Mhm. You feel she'll suspect that, or she'll know something is not quite right? 
And really both alternatives concern you. That she may think you're too good or
better than you really are.
And she may think you are worse than you are. 
I see. It really cuts a little deeper. If she really knew you, would she, could she
accept you?
And so it’s quite clear it isn't only her problem or the relationship with her, it's in you
as well.
"What- What can I accept myself as doing?" And uh you realize that
you set up sort of subterfuges, so as to make sure that you're not caught or
something, you realize that you are acting from guilt, is that it? 
And if you can't accept them in yourself, how could you possibly be comfortable in
telling them to her? 
Mhm. Mhm. And yet, as you say, you do have these desires and you do have your
feelings, but- but you don't feel good about them. 
Mhm. And I guess I'd like to say, "No, I don't want to let you stew in your feelings,"
but on the other hand, I, I also feel that this is the kind of very private thing that I
couldn't possibly answer for you. But I sure as anything will try to help you work
toward your own answer. I don't know whether that makes any sense to you, but I
mean it. 
Yeah, I get the disappointment - that here, a lot of these things you’d thought you'd
worked through, and now the guilts and the feeling that only a part of you is
acceptable to anybody else.
That keeps coming out.
I guess I do catch the real
deep puzzlement that you feel as to "What the hell shall I do? What can I do?" 
Or, I guess I hear it a little differently - that uh- what you want is to seem perfect, but
it means it’s- a great- a matter of great importance to you to be a good mother and
you want to seem to be a good mother, even if some of your actual feelings differ
from that. Is that catching it or not? 
I realize ... you -- alright, but let me -- I’d like to understand it. You sound as though
your actions were kind of outside of you. You want to approve of you, but what you
do somehow won't let you approve of yourself.
Yeah, I- I guess I hear you saying, "If what I was doing, when I went to bed with a
man, was really genuine and full of love and respect and so on, I wouldn't feel guilty
in relation to Pam. I wouldn’t uh, I, I really would be comfortable about the
situation."
But I guess I heard you saying too, that it isn't only the children, but you don't like it
as well when it isn't really ...
And somehow, sometimes, you kind of uh, feel like blaming them for the feelings
you have. I mean, why should they cut you out from a normal sex life, huh? 
Mhm. (Pause) But you feel, really, that at times you’re acting in ways that are not in
accord with your own inner standards.
But then you were also saying, a minute ago, that you feel you can't help that uheither. 
That's right.
hat’s a real concern. I guess uh - I am sure this will sound evasive to you, but it
seems to me that perhaps the person you are not being uh fully honest with is you? Because I was very much struck by the fact that you were saying, "If I feel
all right about what I have done, whether it's going to bed with a man or what, if I
really feel all right about it, then I do not have any concern about what I would tell
Pam or my relationship with her." (Shakes head.)
What you'd like to do is to feel more accepting toward yourself when you do things
that you feel are wrong. Is that right?
(Smiling) It sounds like a tough assignment.
It sounds like a triangle to me, isn't it? You feel that I, or therapists in general, or
other people say, "It is all right, it is all right, it’s natural enough, go ahead." Um, and
I guess you feel your body sort of lines up on that side of the picture.
But something in you says, "But I don't like it that way, not unless it’s really right."
Mhm. You feel this is the conflict and it's just insoluble, and therefore it is hopeless,
and here you look to me and I don't seem to give you any help and that uh-
One thing I might ask, what is it you wish I would say to you?
So you know, yeah - You know very well what you'd like to do in the relationship.
You would like to be yourself and you'd like to have her know that you're not perfect
and do things that maybe even she wouldn't approve of, and that you disapprove of
to some degree yourself, but that uh- somehow she would love you and accept you
as an imperfect person.
You don't sound so uncertain.
What I mean is you have been sitting there telling me just what you would like to do
in that relationship with Pam.
It’s, I guess one thing that I feel very keenly is
that it's an awful risky thing to live. (Pause) You'd be taking a
chance on your relationship with her and taking a chance on letting her know who
you are, really.
Mhm. Mhm. If her love and acceptance of you is based on a false picture of you,
what the hell is the good of that? Is that- is that what you are saying?
Mhm. I guess that's what I meant when I said, "Life is risky." It’s uh- to take the
responsibility for being the person you would like to be with her is a hell of a
responsibility.
A very frightening one.   
Yeah. You sort of feel, “I want them to have just as nice a picture of me as they have
of their dad, and if his is a little phony, then maybe mine will have to
be too.” I think that's putting it a little too strongly, but-
Sounds like you really find it quite hard to believe that they would really love you if
they knew you?
I see.
And now you are kind of in a no-man's-land of probably shifting from one point of
view toward them to another, but boy you'd sure like somebody to say, "That's right,
you go ahead and do it."
It is so damned hard to really choose something on your own, isn't it?
So that you kind of reproach yourself for that, I guess. And feel, "Why, if I was
anybody, or if I was grown up, I'd be mature enough to decide things like this for
myself."
I guess, judging from your tone of voice, you sound as though you hate yourself
more when you lie than you do in terms of things you disapprove of in behavior.
The point is, you haven't forgotten.
I guess the way I sense it is uh, you've been telling me that you know what you want
to do and yes, I do believe in backing up people in what they want to do. It’s just a
little different slant than the way it seems to you.
You see, one thing that concerns me is uh,.. It's no damn good you’re doing
something that you haven't really chosen to do. That’s why I am trying to help you
find out what your own inner choices are.
And I am interested that you say - I'm not just sure which words you used - but you
don’t want- you don’t like yourself or don't approve of it when you do something
against yourself.
It sounds like you’re feeling a contradiction in yourself too, although you- what I
heard you saying in part is uh, the way you like it is when you feel really
comfortable about what you are doing. 
I see. Because in the moment, it may seem like your true feelings.
Mhm. Mhm. So that really is tough ah ... When if you feel comfortable in the
moment about it, but then afterwards don't feel at all comfortable, which course of
action was really the one you should have followed?
Although you are saying – uh, I expect it is – but, but you’re saying too that you
know perfectly well the feeling within yourself that occurs when you are really
doing something that's right for you.
Mhm. You can really listen to yourself sometimes and realize, "Oh no, this isn't the
right feeling. This isn't – this isn’t the way I would feel if I was doing what I really
wanted to do."
I, I sense that in those utopian moments, you really feel kind of whole. You feel all
in one piece.
I expect none of us get it as often as we'd like, but I really do understand it. 
Mhm, that really does touch you, doesn't it?
You look to me like a pretty nice daughter.
But you really do miss the fact that you- you couldn't be open with your own dad.
You were just trying like hell to be the girl he wanted you to be.
That's right. Sure. (Nods)
So you slap at him and say, "This is what I am, now see."
Oh, I see. You really feel badly that you think there is very little chance he will say
that.
That was… He’s never really known you and loved you and this, somehow, is what
brings the tears inside.
Mhm. Mhm. It is much eas… It’s much easier to uh be a little flip, because then you
don't feel that big lump inside of hurt.
Mhm. You feel “nope” that, "I am permanently cheated."
I don't feel that's pretending.
No, I meant about the real close business.  
Well, all I can do is what I am feeling- that is I feel close to you in this moment.
Do you feel as though that's a big need, that it would take a lot of caring and a lot of
understanding to fill it up?
One of the things you really deeply want is to find a father whom you would love
and respect and who would really like you as you are, and not to just like perfection.
The phrase that comes to my mind - I don't know if it is appropriate or not - you're
slapping your father in the face, aren't you?
No. By going out with those who are quite unlike the ones you'd really want.
Hi.
Good to see ya.
Well, I’m eager to know what’s what with you.
Oh, right now, whatever your concerns are in your present life. (S: Mhm hm) I
guess that’s what I’m interested in.
Uh-huh. Then that’s what I’d like you to discuss.
Are you afraid of the responsibility or, or what aspect of it is most frightening?
Will you really be able to be a mother to them when they, (hands Sylvia tissue box.)
when you come home from work. Hmmm?
And you haven’t really had a chance to explore it in, in
depth; you’ve talked about it more on a, on the surface level.
So the track record, the track record that the other people have, the other women
have makes you really concerned about will you be able to do it?
Yeah. Yeah.
It’s one possible option at any rate. Mhm.
It is clear to me from the, from the tears that came up the first that, that, uh, this is
something you feel a lot of concern about, isn’t it?
Mhm. Mhm. Mhm.
You just feel, “I may not be able to make it. I may be doomed to failure by the very circumstances.”
Mhm. Mhm. But you don’t have to just tell yourself, “Oh, buck up, you can do it.”
It’s, it gives you a good chance to really…
Yeah. Yeah. That’s the thing isn’t it? That to be all alone, with no support from
anybody, it sounds like…
You’ll be alone with a heavy burden and it is a sad prospect really.
But it feels like reality. That either you’d have to give up your children or,
or else make a go of it.
That’s when you kind of scold yourself,really. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm.
So that you really feel you’re gonna be hemmed in by that. I
mean, your life is gonna be constricted a good deal. A lot of the things
you’ve been used to you just won’t have.
And want for yourself. Uh-huh.
So really it does look like a very tough period, doesn’t it?
Sort of a new phase of your life? Is it… it has excitement as well as dread in it, I
guess.
It will be a new adventure but it’s one that, uh, you feel different ways about.
‘Cos it is…well, it is, it is a real sad prospect. And one, I guess, that you don’t let
out too much to other people, the sad side of it.
Mhm. Yeah being, being frightened of what you’re taking on and sad of what
you’re losing for yourself. Those are two very real feelings.
It’s a goal you’ve been working toward. Mhm. I
wonder sort of how do your children feel about this?
Mhm. So that’s another new part of the…
“Will he, will he really accept me as a mother?”
So that’s a concern to ya, too.
“Can we really form a relationship of the kind that both of us would like?”
You're asking yourself, “Can we really form a relationship that both of us will like?”
You can get a start on that. Mhm.
Mhm. Mhm. It’s a really difficult thing.
Yeah. (Pause.) You have quite a little of conflict about, “Should I really be doing
this? Who, who will see it? What will they say? Am I wise?” 
Looks to me as though your eyes are saying something, but I
don’t know what.
That made a…
Mhm.I guess you’re saying that I mean a good deal to you.
Can you tell me what I do mean to you?
But what does that mean to you?
You’d like to have a good match between your life and what you believe and value.
It certainly does, that’s right.
And that, that has meaning to me. You’d like to be sufficiently accepting of
yourself, that then you can be comfortable with what your children do or what
other people do and not, uh, not feel frightened,thrown off balance.
Yeah. Mhm. Mhm.
And I’m interested enough in you to
know of any other things in your life that are important to you or that, uh, that are
difficult for ya, or whatever.
But you do have difficulties in…
Sounds like it seems kind of mysterious to you. Why the men lose
interest in you.
Well, that’s a part of your life in which you just haven’t had the kind of, um,
success that you wish you had had. Mhm. Mhm. An important lack in some way.
A little bit.
I gather what you mean by “selling out” is that if you, if you really put yourself out
in kind of an artificial way, you don’t want that. Is that what you’re saying?
Mhm. Kind of buying his favor, as it were. And you just don’t
see yourself doing that. Don’t wanna do that.
Mhm. You say you’re trying to analyze and analyze and analyze what, “what lack
in me?” or “you know what lack in me?’ I guess your asking yourself mostly,
“What lack in me keeps, keeps me from having a lasting
relationship with men?” 
But that her saying that he saying that, uh, really does touch
something in you. “Is there something wrong with me that I….“
Mhm. It, it wouldn’t bother you that much, or you wouldn’t think so
much about it if there wasn’t something in you that that refers to.
You’re saying, “Maybe, maybe I’m just following the same pattern as my mother.”
So you can have good times and all that, but still there is this nagging question or
these nagging questions, “Am I just following my mother’s pattern?” “What is wrong with me that I don’t have a permanent relationship with a man?”
Well, where would you like to start this morning?
And it’s the awareness of it that's new. That you're beginning to
realize, “Hey, I am different in this respect, I've learned something.”
What are some of those differences?
M-hm, m-hm. Sounds as though you feel a bit stronger that way.
I mean, sounds, sounds like you feel more like a grown-up mother.
So risking has been the road to learning in the sexual area.
Taking all kinds of risks that you hadn't before.
And I guess that leads to a, uh, to a deeper kind of learning, or at any rate, a learning
that you feel more sure of. I guess, I get a sense of assurance in what you're talking
about. An assurance in you.
No, I don't
Uh-huh. No, that makes a lot of sense to me.
Uh-huh. Because you’re, you're uh more aware of all aspects of yourself and it sounds a more acceptant of them too. “Yes, I'm mature in certain ways and here's some ways I know I'm immature.”
Sounds as though you, you voice that as a conflict, but it sounds as though really
you're more on the, on the side of the second aspect that, uh, uh, to be open and,
and in that sense helpless and vulnerable, I guess might be a possible term too, um,
is something you, you really believe that's what you are, rather than that you're a
totally dependent person and really helpless and have to, have to run for help. I sort
of get the feeling you like this aspect of you that is able to be with me in a way that
is, uh, more open, more vulnerable perhaps.
There are the two sides, uh-huh.
(Nods.) M-hm. So really to get it more accurately, you scold yourself
for for being dependent, for, for wanting to be here, for example, with
me, and yet at the same time you, you feel. uh, well, that's good, I, I
really like that, but where's the, where's the integration of those two, uh, points of
view.
Sure. M-hm.
Okay.
M-hm, m-hm, m-hm. Really would be giving yourself a gift if you could just kind
of let go and not, uh, not be so competent and able.
M-hm, m-hm. And you feel some contact and maybe you can say, “Well, maybe I
don't have to be so strong, so Maybe I can just let go more.”
Have to be kind of silent, to let go of that rational and rationalizing part of you.
Are there any things that sort of come bubbling up?
Okay. M-hm. But it's not easy, huh.
Okay.
You feel what an awful thing it is that I'm attracted to black people.
That sounds like not only your family looks down on it or something but that you
scold yourself for it too.
Yeah, that's it.
“What kind of a crazy person am I that I feel attracted to so many
blacks?”
Sick, that's.
You really feel that there's something sick in you that causes you to have so many
black friends.
So there isn't any reason except that you feel that way.
And that isn't good enough.
You feel “I should not feel that way. I shouldn't be that way. Sick.”
Mm, see if it shows. M-hm, m-hm.
It has something to do with the sexual attraction.
So I guess you're saying, um, yeah, there's a sexual element in it but
I'm also attracted to their way of living.
That's partly your fantasy or something. 
In a way you're saying it out loud and really in a wa ..., in a sense, publicly, may
help you to feel “I don't need to be so ashamed of that.” 
But you feel disapproved of probably, certainly by your family and maybe by the
culture in this respect.
So that somehow you know you're not alone in this.
M-hm. So Okay, other women feel the same way but not to the degree that you do,
you think. 
That's kind of out of, Out of scale.
Maybe someday you won't be ashamed of yourself for that.
Uh-huh, m-hm. So, perhaps what you are and what you feel will be something you
can take real satisfaction in instead of feeling how shameful.
Feel this is a risk. And that's a sign of learning and of growth.
M-hm, m-hm. So that's seen as another strange part of you.
Not so.
It's more of your analyzing it, isn't it, trying to think about what's
happening. “Did I run away from it? Or was I finished with it?” Or
continue think about it.
Instead of asking, “Do I feel as though I'm finished with it? Do I feel
as though I'm escaping from it?”
The feeling is one of uncertainty.
“What did I say? What did I feel?” You'd like to have a rerun of it and it Sounds like you scold yourself for that, as though, “Oh, I just talk talk-talk.”
It didn't sound like just talk-talk-talk to me.
No. 
M-hm. Let me give you a very brief rerun of part of it. You
were saying, “I'm ashamed of myself for being attracted to black men. Uh, I know
many other women have some of the same feeling, but it seems to me I have that
feeling disproportionately strong and uh my family is critical of that, the culture is
critical. Um, I'd like to be able to accept those feelings in myself. Maybe I'm
making a little bit of progress along that line, but still it does seem a need to be a a
strange part of me that I don't understand.”
“And part of that attraction is sexual but I'm also attracted to their children, to the
way they live, to a lot of things about them.”
It just is, but you can't quite uh can't quite get at the reasons for it. You have to have
the reasons.
M-hm. So maybe the intellectual understanding isn't as
important as you thought it was.
 “If I could accept it, I wouldn't have to understand in the sense of knowing the
reasons.”
Sounds like that's what you're doing in imagination a lot, trying to explain it to
somebody.
M-hm. It may be one of those things that if you can accept it,
you wouldn't need to have all the explanations.
M-hm. It's a broader statement of it.
M-hm. You would in general feel “I have to justify myself with proper reasons.”
I suspect we all do, some. M-hm.   


   
 


 



 
 




